**Preliminary statistical plan for the first-round analysis for the oncotype project**:

1. `Manipulate data`: take care of the variable type; for categorical variables, set the appropriate reference group and level order; construct new T stage (T1, T2, T3|T4), N stage (N0, N1|N2|N3), and grade (high-grade; non high-grade) variables. Check the consistencies between the missing distributions of newly constructed variables and of the original ones; may discuss with Georgia if I need further clarification on the variable values.
2. Write a variable definition section that clearly outlines the variable's full name, unit (if possible), and categorical and reference level.
3. `Descriptive Statistics`: Generate an overall summary table of female patient characteristics (put the duration of follow-up in the front places as our collaborators often care about this variable). Mean with standard deviation, and median with interquartile range are used to describe the distributions of continuous variables. Count and percentage are used to describe the distributions of categorical variables. This will help gain initial insights into the female breast cancer data.
4. `Correlation Analysis`: Compute Pearson's/Spearman's correlation coefficients and p values to examine the strength, direction, and significance of the associations between continuous variables including BMI, height, weight, tumor size, oncotype score, and age. This will help determine if there is any linear or monotonic relationship between two continuous variables. Also, perform exploratory analysis by constructing the scatter plots to visualize the relationship between each pair of continuous variables mentioned before. Tidy the default numerical and visual evidence for our collaborators. This will help convey clear and readily comprehensible messages to audience with few statistical backgrounds.
5. `Inferential Statistics`: Use T-test/Wilcoxon rank sum test (for two group independent sample comparisons) and ANOVA/Kruskal Wallis test (for over two group independent sample comparisons) to examine the differences in mean values or distributions of continuous variables (i.e., BMI, height, weight) across categorical variables (i.e., T stage, N stage, histological type, grade, lymphovascular invasion). These hypothesis tests can help identify if there are any statistically significant associations between BMI/height/weight and T stage/N stage/histological type/grade/lymphovascular invasion.
6. `Stratified Analysis` by Race/Ethnicity: Perform stratified analyses based on Race/Ethnicity to evaluate whether the associations between BMI/height/weight, and the other variables (i.e., T stage/tumor size/N stage/oncotype score/age at diagnosis/histological type/grade/lymphovascular invasion) differ across racial groups, using the methods mentioned in 4.correlation analysis and 5.inferential statistics. This can help determine if there are race-specific associations or if the relationships are consistent across all races.
7. `Regression Analysis`: Create a treatment modality variable which records the combined value in surgical procedure, endocrine therapy, and radiation therapy for each patient. Perform multivariable logistic regression to determine the association between locoregional recurrence/distant recurrence (one of two outcomes) and BMI/weight/height (one of three primary predictors), after adjustments of treatment modality, T stage, N stage, and oncotype. A total of six multivariable logistic regression models are expected to build. In addition, perform multivariable cox proportional hazards regression to determine the association between locoregional recurrence/distant recurrence free survival (one of two survival outcomes) and BMI/weight/height (one of three primary predictors), after adjustments of treatment modality, T stage, N stage, and oncotype. A total of six multivariable cox proportional hazards regression models are expected to build. For survival analysis, check if there are any patients having the locoregional recurrence/distant recurrence at diagnosis, before building the cox model. 
8. Write a paragraph to describe how locoregional recurrence/distant recurrence free survival are defined.
9. `Stratified Analysis` by Race/Ethnicity: Perform stratified analyses based on Race/Ethnicity to evaluate whether the adjusted associations between locoregional recurrence/distant recurrence and BMI/height/weight differ within these racial subgroups, using the regression methods mentioned in 7. regression analysis.
10. `Inferential Statistics`: Generate two patient characteristics summary tables grouped by locoregional recurrence status, or distant recurrence status, respectively. In each table, apply the chi-square test/Fisher's exact test to examine the association between locoregional recurrence/distant recurrence and other categorical variables (e.g., T stage, N stage, histological type). Apply the T-test/Wilcoxon rank sum test to examine the association between locoregional recurrence/distant recurrence and continuous variables (e.g., tumor size, oncotype score, age). This helps identify factors that are associated with locoregional and distant recurrence. Also perform univariable cox proportional hazards regression models to identify factors that are associated with locoregional recurrence free survival and distant recurrence survival. 
11. `Descriptive Statistics`: Subset the data to female patients with ER+ and PR+ and HER2- and T1-2 and N0-1 breast cancer. Summarize the BMI values for each year from 2010 to 2023, using the following measures: mean, median, standard deviation, interquartile range, minimum, and maximum. These statistics will provide an overview of the central tendency and variability of BMI values for each year. Tidy the numerical evidence into a table with each row as a year and each column as a statistic, considering the MS word portrait orientation. Also, create a violin plot to visualize the distributions of BMI over years. Based on this plot, decide if use the median or mean value of BMI per year to create a line plot. This line plot will help observe any patterns or changes in central tendency of BMI over time, intuitively, free from interference caused by variability.
12. Check the accuracy of results generated by above steps.
